#Client Project 

The Client Project provided a very valuable opportunity to practice the professionalism required to work in a team to produce quality deliverables for a client. I learned how to conduct audience and needs analyses to determine the project requirements and form a realistic workplan. This assignment also allowed me to gain some experience with creating high fidelity wireframes and prototypes with Figma. 

See the prototype my team created for the MN Austin Healey Club website **[here](https://www.figma.com/file/sJm7JyGLiSsUGvSTyOMpcR/WRIT-4662W-Healey-Club-Redesign-Edit?node-id=190%3A2105)**.

One resource I found to be useful for thinking about writing content for digital spaces is Janice Redish’s *Letting Go of the Words*. She stated, “people come for information that answers their questions or helps them complete their task. They want that information to be easy to find, easy to understand, accurate, up to date, and credible” (Redish). The most important information should be in a prominent position at the top of the page, not buried in text. Digital content should be visually pleasing and uncluttered. There should be enough white space on the page that it is not overwhelming. For the client assignment, this meant we had to prioritize information and organize it in a way that answers the questions the audience needs answered. People visiting the MN Austin Healey Club website are looking for information about the MN Austin Healey Club, upcoming events, meeting place, the club roster and officers, how to become a member, and where to get parts. Therefore, the content has to be organized to highlight these pieces of information in a way that is easily accessible and readable so the users can find the information they need.

Overall, this module shifted my perspective about writing for the web. When thinking about creating digital content, I will now advocate for the user and their needs and work to make the content organized in a way that is best for the situation and audience. 
