## DITA XML and Oxygen

In WRIT 4662W, I learned about DITA XML and tested my knowledge by creating content via Oxygen XML Editor. Before this course I had heard of DITA, but I did not know exactly what it was. I learned that DITA stands for Darwin Information Typing Architecture and is a way to standardize rules for XML tags and elements. DITA is useful for organizing and maintaining large bodies of content because DITA can separate content into sections using tags. These tags can be used in multiple documents and can be updated efficiently. By changing the section in one document, it will update everywhere it is linked. By utilizing DITA, writers can also contribute to sections without affecting the whole document. This way, sections can easily be edited, organized, and maintained.

I created content utilizing structured authoring/DITA XML using Oxygen XML Editor. I chose to create an instructional document about how to select an artificial Christmas tree. I organized the content into the sections, or topics, based on tasks like "choosing your tree type" and "determining your tree size". I also created a reference topic titled "artificial tree descriptions" and a concept topic titled "why choose an artificial Christmas tree?". During this process I made sure to include all pertinent information so that the topic was complete, but not so much information that it could be separated into another topic. I then wrote rough draft of the content began creating my DITA files in Oxygen. After I completed the files, I created a DITA map to link the content together. After performing transformations on the content, I was able to create two deliverables: a PDF and a WebHelpResponsive document. 

In this module I learned about the concept of DITA XML and how it is utilized by technical writers to maintain large bodies of content as well as how to create content with DITA XML using Oxygen software. I learned about, and engaged in, topic-based writing to create content that is easier for technical communicators to maintain, update and reorganize, and easier for the audience to use.
