#HTML and CSS

The first assignment Static Site v.1 deepened my knowledge of HTML and CSS.  Before this course I had a basic understanding of HTML and CSS from a course I took at the University of Wisconsin – Green Bay called Introduction to Computing and Internet Technologies. In this course, I expanded my skills to focus on the aesthetic elements of a webpage like color, font, and layout. 

In the first version of my static site I was able to create two columns with a grey background with a darker grey column of text on the left side of the page. I learned how to create a band of color (olive green) at the top of the page and tied that color in with a line under the heading “About Me”. I also learned how to code a scrolling footer that stays at the bottom of the screen no matter where the user is on the page. While I still do not think I could achieve the same level of visual professionalism as a platform like Wix or WordPress, it is great to be able to create something completely customized. If nothing else, what I cannot create I can understand. After this course, I can understand and “read” CSS and HTML files which will be very useful in the future as a pursue a career in technical writing. 

By reading Rhetorical Web Design by Jason Tham, I learned that many programmers/developers today rely heavily on convenient prefabricated website templates and subsequently do not cultivate coding skills. Tham argues that templates do not allow the programmer to customize the website layout to the audience and rhetorical situation. He states if people become too reliant on WYSIWYG content editors, they can be distracted from the needs of their audience and the cultural and contextual factors that influence them. This creates a divide between the developer/designer and the audience which furthers the “power imbalance between expert developers and everyday web users” (Tham 8). I agree with Tham’s argument. While it is very convenient to use WYSIWYG content editors like WordPress and Wix, they do not offer as much customization as coding a website yourself. Building a website from scratch allows the programmer to think about placement of certain elements, structure, color scheme, etc. in relation to the audience and rhetorical situation. If developers rely too heavily on prefabricated templates, they are not customizing the website to the cultural, social, and even economic and political expectations of the audience. By relying on content editors, they are not using rhetoric to dictate design and meet the needs of their target audience. Overall, this course inspired me to continue improving my understanding of HTML and CSS so that I can create content that is tailored to the rhetorical situation and the needs of the audience. 


View my Static Site v.1 **[here](https://nataliegardner.github.io/)**.
