#Markdown and Static Site Generators

Before this course, I had not heard of markdown and was slightly intimidated about learning what I thought would be another complex computer language. However, markdown is surprisingly intuitive and easy to understand. The markdown module taught me about a convenient, intuitive way to create webpages. By creating markdown pages and converting them to HTML via a static site generator (SSG), I learned how to efficiently create a functional static website. 

I had also not heard of SSGs before taking WRIT 4662W. I did not know that you could upload pages in markdown and have them automatically convert to HTML. Over the course of this class, I have learned that while building a website from scratch with HTML and CSS allows the most customization, it can be daunting for someone with little experience. I also learned that while content management systems (CMSs) like WordPress or Wix are much more convenient, they do not provide the level of customization that is often desired by developers. SSGs, then, are a compromise between ease and customization. 

When beginning to engage with MkDocs for this assignment, Static Site v.2, I was a little confused about how to access the command line and perform the proper commands. The MkDocs “Getting Started” tutorial was not very helpful to me because it illustrated the steps on a PC and I was using a Mac. However, after searching for the proper commands on a Mac, I was able to download and install MkDocs and perform the serve command to track the changes in my browser without any issues. I found the process of creating more markdown files in my project folder and linking them in the yml document to create more pages on my site to be very intuitive. This assignment, allowed me to overcome my apprehension of the command line and create a simple, functional site efficiently through the SSG MkDocs and markdown. These skills will serve me in the future if I wish to use MkDocs to create and maintain a portfolio. I may also use them in my career as I enter the field of technical writing. 
